docs: changelog-07-05-2024 (#1911)
neondatabase/website: content/changelog/2024-07-05.md

---
description: Explore available Postgres extensions from console, more protection for default and protected branches, and lots of improvements and fixes.
---

### Explore Postgres extensions from the Neon Console

> Postgres extensions let you customize and extend your database's capabilities across a broad range of categories such as analytics, data transformation, full-text search, geospatial data processing, and more. Neon supports over 70 Postgres extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Postgres extensions let you customize and extend your database's capabilities across a broad range of categories such as analytics, data transformation, full-text search, geospatial data processing, and more. Neon supports over 70 Postgres extensions.
```
```suggestion
Postgres extensions let you customize and extend your database's capabilities across a broad range of categories: from analytics and data transformation to full-text search and geospatial data processing, and more. Currently, Neon supports over 70 Postgres extensions.
```

> Postgres extensions let you customize and extend your database's capabilities across a broad range of categories such as analytics, data transformation, full-text search, geospatial data processing, and more. Neon supports over 70 Postgres extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Postgres extensions let you customize and extend your database's capabilities across a broad range of categories: from analytics and data transformation to full-text search and geospatial data processing, and more. Currently, Neon supports over 70 Postgres extensions.
```

You can now explore all of Neon's supported extensions directly from the console. We've added an **Install Extensions** section to the **Quickstart**, which you can open from the Neon Console sidebar.

![Quickstart extensions](/docs/relnotes/quickstart_extensions.png)

Click **Install** to view the required `CREATE EXTENSION` command, and click **Docs** to view the extension's documentation.

### More protection for default and protected branches

To enhance the protection of [default](/docs/manage/branches#protected-branch) and [protected](/docs/guides/protected-branches) branches, we've disabled the **Delete** action for those branches.

> To delete a default branch, you must first set a different branch as the default. Before deleting a protected branch, you have to change its status to unprotected.

Reviewer 2: > To delete a default branch, you must first set a different branch as the default.

This behaviour is not new. It used to work the same with primary branches.

Author: Thank you. I've removed reference to default branches.

> To delete a default branch, you must first set a different branch as the default. Before deleting a protected branch, you have to change its status to unprotected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, before you can delete a default branch, you must first set a different branch as the default. And before deleting a protected branch, you have to change its status to unprotected.
```

The [Protected branches](/docs/guides/protected-branches) feature is available with the Neon [Scale](/docs/introduction/plans#scale) plan.

### Fixes & improvements

> - The currently selected branch and database are now preserved when moving between the **SQL Editor** and **Tables** page in the Neon Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We now preserve your currently selected branch and database when you switch between the **SQL Editor** and **Tables** page in the Neon Console.
```

- Added an **Endpoint Inactive** legend item to the **CPU** and **Database Size** charts on the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console. This legend item highlights periods when the compute endpoint was suspended, indicating no available data for those times.

> - Added a system status badge to the Neon Console, next to the notifications icon in the page header. System status was previously displayed in the notifications menu where it was not immediately visible.

Author: Updated.

- Added a `psql -h pg.neon.tech` connection snippet to the **Connection Details** widget. Instead of supplying a connection string when connecting with `psql`, you can use `psql -h pg.neon.tech` at the command line to launch a browser-based authentication flow.
- The notifications icon in the Neon Console page header is now highlighted when there's a new notification.
- Added RAM and vCPU alerts to the Neon Console to let you know when you're getting close to your plan limits.

> - The Neon CLI [branches set-primary](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/cli-branches#set-primary) subcommand is deprecated. It's replaced by the `branches set-default` subcommand. This is a follow-up change associated with renaming of "primary branches" to "default branches" that we implemented recently and announced in the [June 21, 2024 changelog](/docs/changelog/2024-06-21). Support for the `branches set-primary` subcommand will be removed in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We deprecated the Neon CLI [branches set-primary](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/cli-branches#set-primary) subcommand, which is now replaced by the `branches set-default` subcommand. This is a follow-up change associated with renaming of "primary branches" to "default branches" that we implemented recently and announced in the [June 21, 2024 changelog](/docs/changelog/2024-06-21). Support for the `branches set-primary` subcommand will be removed in a future release.
```

> - For Free Tier users with access to shared projects, clicking an **upgrade plan** link within the shared project now displays a modal directing the shared project user to contact the project owner.

Reviewer: Is "upgrade plan" capitialized?

- Fixed an issue in the Neon CLI that caused a `branch_id` configured in a context file (created with the Neon CLI [set-context](/docs/reference/cli-set-context) command) to be used when a unrelated project ID was specified explicitly in a Neon CLI command.
- Fixed an issue that prevented creating a new branch in the Neon Console using a Safari browser when selecting a specific date and time as the branch creation point. The issue resulted in an `Invalid Date` error.
- Fixed an issue in the Neon Console that caused the history retention setting for a shared project to differ from the project owner's history retention setting.
- Fixed an issue in the Neon Vercel Integration to better handle errors reported for variables set by the integration that were already configured in Vercel. The issue caused preview deployment failures.

> - Fixed an issue on the RAM and CPU charts on the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console. The verticle axis scale was not displayed properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue on the RAM and CPU charts on the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console. The vertical axis scale was not displayed properly.
```

Author: fixed.

> - For Free Tier accounts, a **Data transfer** usage metric was added to **Resources remaining** widget on the Project Dashboard. The Neon Free Tier has a 5 GiB per month [data transfer](/docs/introduction/usage-metrics#data-transfer) allowance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For Free Tier accounts, we added a **Data transfer** usage metric to the **Resources remaining** widget on the Project Dashboard. The Neon Free Tier has a 5 GiB per month [data transfer](/docs/introduction/usage-metrics#data-transfer) allowance.
```

Author: changed
